[New] Secure your Linode VMs with mobile FIDO2 security keys (#6187)
linode/docs: docs/guides/security/authentication/secure-instance-with-fido2-key/index.md

-   **Both your local and remote systems must use OpenSSH 8.2+.** The Akamai akr tool generates keys using the ECDSA algorithm with 256-bit strength and outputs them in the `sk-ecdsa-sha2-nistp256` format. Due to this, both the local system and any remote systems that use the public key must have OpenSSH 8.2 (or greater) installed. To check your OpenSSH version, run:

    ```command
    ssh -V
    ```

## Installation Instructions

Instructions on installing the akr tool (which includes Akamai's Krypton SSH Agent) to your system. For additional installation help, review the [official instructions](https://techdocs.akamai.com/mfa/docs/akr-fido2-ssh-agent#install-or-update-your-akr-fido2-ssh-agent) on Akamai's documentation site.

{{< tabs >}}
{{< tab "macOS 10.15+" >}}
To start using FIDO2 authentication with Akamai akr, macOS users can install the agent with [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/).

> 1.  The OpenSSH version include on macOS Ventura (and earlier releases) does not support the necessary security keys features. To overcome this, install OpenSSH through Homebrew and update your PATH variable so that this new version is used instead of the default macOS version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  The OpenSSH version included on macOS Ventura (and earlier releases) does not support the necessary security keys features. To overcome this, install OpenSSH through Homebrew and update your PATH variable so that this new version is used instead of the default macOS version.
```

    ```command
    sudo apt update
    sudo apt install gnupg
    ```

1.  Download the Akamai AKR key file and add it to the `/usr/share/keyrings/` directory.

    ```command
    curl -fsSL https://akamai.github.io/akr-pkg/ubuntu/KEY.gpg | gpg --dearmor | sudo tee /usr/share/keyrings/akr.gpg > /dev/null
    ```

1.  Add the Akamai AKR repository.

    ```command
    echo "deb [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/akr.gpg] https://akamai.github.io/akr-pkg/ubuntu ./" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/akr.list
    ```

1.  Install the `akr` and `pinentry-tty` packages.

    ```command
    sudo apt update
    sudo apt install akr pinentry-tty
    ```
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "AlmaLinux 9 and Rocky Linux 9" >}}
1.  Create a repo file for the akr package repo.

    ```command
    sudo vim /etc/yum.repos.d/akr.repo
    ```

1.  Add the following contents to that file:

    ```file {title="/etc/yum.repos.d/akr.repo"}
    [akr]
    name=akr repository
    baseurl=https://akamai.github.io/akr-pkg/rpm-9/
    gpgcheck=0
    enabled=1
    ```

1.  Install the `akr` package along with `pinentry`.

    ```command
    sudo dnf -y install akr pinentry
    ```
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "From source" >}}

> You can also build the application with Rust from the repository. You need to make sure Rust (https://rustup.rs) is installed, then you can run `cargo build` to build the application locally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also build the application with Rust from the repository. First ensure that Rust (https://rustup.rs) is installed, then run `cargo build` to build the application locally.
```

    1.  Click the **Add Key** button to store the key on your user account.
    {{< /tab >}}
    {{< tab "Linode CLI" >}}

    Run the command below, replacing *[public-key]* with the SSH key that was generated by the akr tool.

    ```command
    linode-cli sshkeys create \
      --label "Akamai akr SSH Key" \
      --ssh_key "[public-key]"
    ```

    For more details, review the CLI request sample on the [SSH Key Add API reference](/docs/api/profile/#ssh-key-add).
    {{< /tab >}}
    {{< tab "Linode API" >}}
    Perform the API request below, replacing *[public-key]* with the SSH key that was generated by the akr tool.

    ```command
    curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
        -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" \
        -X POST -d '{
            "label": "Akamai akr SSH Key",
            "ssh_key": "[public-key]"
        }' \
        https://api.linode.com/v4/profile/sshkeys
    ```

    For more details, review the shell request sample on the [SSH Key Add API reference](/docs/api/profile/#ssh-key-add).
    {{< /tab >}}
    {{< /tabs >}}

> 1.  Create a new Compute Instance, making sure to select your user under SSH Keys. See [Create a Compute Instance](https://www.linode.com/docs/products/compute/compute-instances/guides/create/#create-a-password-and-add-ssh-keys) for full instructions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Create a new Compute Instance, making sure to select your user under SSH Keys. See [Create a Compute Instance](/docs/products/compute/compute-instances/guides/create/#create-a-password-and-add-ssh-keys) for full instructions.
```

{{< /note >}}

## Additional SSH Configuration

When akr is initially configured, the akr (Krypton) becomes the default SSH agent used for SSH connections. This behavior may not desired for several reasons, including that akr is a beta product and you may have workflows that depend on other SSH agents. If you do not wish to use Akamai's SSH agent by default, adjust your SSH configuration file by following the instructions below.

1.  Edit your user's SSH configuration file using your preferred text editor.

    ```command
    nano ~/.ssh/config
    ```

1.  Locate the lines added by Akamai. By default, the lines should match the following (where *[user]* is your user's home directory).

    ```file {title="~/.ssh/config"}
    # Begin Akamai MFA SSH Config
    Host *
      IdentityAgent /Users/[user]/.akr/akr-ssh-agent.sock
    # End Akamai MFA SSH Config
    ```

    The `Host` keyword is used to identify the hosts while the inner `IdentityAgent` line tells the system which SSH agent should be used for those hosts. In this default configuration, the akr (Krypton) SSH agent is used for *all new connections.*

> 1.  Adjust the `Host` parameter. Replace the asterisks (`*`) with the specific host names or IP addresses of the systems you'd like to login using akr and Akamai MFA (delimited by a space character).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Adjust the `Host` parameter. Replace the asterisks (`*`) with the specific host names or IP addresses of the systems you'd like to log in to using akr and Akamai MFA (delimited by a space character).
```
